---
title: 'Transforming industry through information altruism'
media_order: butterfly.jpg
date: '21-01-2011 00:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - transformation
slug: transform-industry
image: butterfly.jpg
---

<p style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 20px;">&nbsp;</p><p>This posting is a refinement of a concept that I presented earlier on this blog: Using OSS to disrupt industries.</p><p>Through the title, I am suggesting that there are negative network-effects in the form of social impact with open source systems. &nbsp;In fact, I&#39;ll go so far to say that open source software can be used to collapse entire markets, both IT and non-IT. &nbsp;Much like having access to capital allows you to invest in ventures that often times generate more capital (once rich it&#39;s easier to become super-rich), the more available source code is, the easier it is to free-up more and more source code.</p><p>It also can cause closed-source projects to collapse (or at least their market to reduce) as more and more adopt open practices. &nbsp;An unfortunate fact though is that information walling often results in more jobs. &nbsp;The more hops information has to take, the more jobs were created to get there. &nbsp;How many people got put out of jobs because automation happened in the phone switch industry? &nbsp;I believe the same thing will soon be happening to those in the open source industry as the industry turns inward and puts itself out of work. &nbsp;First it&#39;ll be some projects taking each other out of the next few years thanks to market forces but at least in the Drupal community, I&#39;m already seeing cracks.</p><p>People at the top asking for more and more control over the platform, even though it&#39;s the very thing that they went to open source to get away from. &nbsp;Here are some other examples I could come up with of where giving away code has far greater consequences then just giving code away.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><h3>Digital altruism collapsing digital form</h3><p>Open source is an iterative process which leads to the open sourcing of more technologies that enable more people to do more with less technical knowledge. &nbsp;Apache leads to PHP / MySQL leads to Wordpress / Drupal systems. &nbsp;As a result, I&#39;ve seen Dreamweaver (as an example) go from a tool that I used to build websites to a tool that I use to build code to allow others to build websites. &nbsp;This is the creative and destructive power of open source.</p><h3>Digital altruism collapsing digital form and physical form</h3><p>This doesn&#39;t have to just be contained to software platforms though. &nbsp;Wikipedia, leads to freer access to information, leads to marginalization of paid information sources (books, Encarta, etc) which collapses the previous&nbsp;silo-ing of knowledge in sources that had a cost of entry.</p><h3>Digital Altruism collapsing the IT industry</h3><p>Previous web-development shops had coders, site layout and design, producers, copy editors, graphic artists, server manager, all with different talents and skills. &nbsp;Now with the web landscape being as it is, the cost of entry has been lowered for&nbsp;everyone. &nbsp;As such, I don&#39;t need to know layout / design because of captured, open knowledge, in the form themes / templates. &nbsp;I don&#39;t need copy editors (or as many) because everyone can self-moderate content as well as use small publishing workflows to release content. &nbsp;Server management consoles exist and captured knowledge in the form of things like MAMP and XAMPP (not to mention open source based services like wordpress.com) make it easy to get a site up and off the ground. &nbsp;Come to think of it, I don&#39;t even need me, the coder, because other coders have captured install and configuration knowledge in the CMS like wordpress.com.</p><p>No, the only person &quot;needed&quot; to produce a high quality website with new content is the content author and maybe a manager (though those could be the same person).</p><p>What&#39;s the trend I&#39;m seeing currently? &nbsp;We&#39;re going from a world where there are less hubs and less authorities. &nbsp;Where information can be created and disseminated so quickly that newspapers and traditional TV media aren&#39;t going away entirely, but are definitely being softened in tone. &nbsp;If I want an opinion I can go anywhere and get it and that&#39;s great (most people already know this).</p><p>But what I also see happening, is that we&#39;re collapsing our own industry. &nbsp;I see less and less people wanting to get into the IT sector because those that have come before them have made things so easy, so wyziwig&#39;ed, so fast that it&#39;s not interesting to them. &nbsp;This will lead to less ideas, less choice, and only a few technical authorities who can effectively kick the door shut on all those who come after them. &nbsp;A truly, Apple (and a few others) world of elite companies as well as a few elite open source advocates along for the ride.</p><p>Connect the dots, speak out for more choice, question why someone is giving you something for free ;).</p>