---
title: 'Transform Control'
media_order: SANDBAGGED.jpg
date: '12-12-2015 00:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - control
        - innovation
slug: transform-control
image: SANDBAGGED.jpg
---

<p>The old addage of IT managers of the 90&#39;s was that technology didn&#39;t matter. As in, it didn&#39;t matter which technology you choose, just that you align with one and execute. This mindset was wrought with good intentions;&nbsp;solutions and people&nbsp;should matter, not&nbsp;how&nbsp;you get there. This was true in the days prior to frameworks, when languages were all we had.</p><p>Now, very few people build anything from scratch (of any scale). They always use frameworks, whether CMS frameworks like Drupal or Wordpress, or system scaffolding frameworks like Symfony or Zend. Frameworks made technology selection matter. Why build in a year what you&nbsp;can produce 90% of in a minute. The only argument would be bloat of codebase and if the framework gave you the flexibility and&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;required. (Google&#39;s building quantum computers so... &quot;Bloat&quot; is a temporal construct)</p><p>Then came the deployment argument. Do we do it internally where we can&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;access to the servers and know where the data lives? Or, are we comfortable with giving up that&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;in favor of flexibility by going to&nbsp;the&nbsp;cloud. The flexibility and&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;argument plays out in society at large all the time; but, I view technology as coming to a tipping point thanks to automated deployments, frameworks, and the future where&nbsp;<a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Pq-S557XQU">humans need not apply.</a></p><h2>Bitcoin</h2><p>Bitcoin and the block chain will be the design methodology that shatters IT structures.&nbsp;We simply don&#39;t need human conceptions of structure dictating the&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;of information. Technology, and the future of humanity, is distributed, framework driven and managed by robots and automated deployment mechanisms. We no longer need human&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;structures to dictate who has access to what. Rather, human hierarchies (and too many of them) disempower through the distribution of decision making. Corporations do this all the time. BP spill, who do we blaim? eh, no one, it&#39;s a corporation. A named, yet faceless entity that controls oil flowing from the ground yet is unaccountable&nbsp;(weird huh?).</p><h2>Where is innovation?</h2><p>So what is empowerment if the hierarchy of humanity is no longer needed in order to achieve it? We always hear about those mythical beings working in a garage with nothing but a computer and an idea. Why did it work? Why was the individual so transformative when all the structures of the day were not? Why is it that innovation lives in the garage but not in the boardroom?</p><p>Innovation is born of chaos and random chance... seemingly. It is a spark of imagination from the individual. The euphoria of bringing a new idea to life. In the unknown; that which we&nbsp;<a href="http://github.com/elmsln/dig">DIG</a>&nbsp;up and bring to life. And so, it is not simply enough to create a product that contains the innovations and ideas of the individuals that produced them. We must empower, through frameworks that allow such a thing, and harness these once chaotic conceptions into sustainable realities. Provide the thing that&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;often claims to have the high ground on, sustainability through framework and automation.</p><h2>The revolution will be decentralized</h2><p>If the last 20 years of Silco projects have been about transfering power and wealth to a new power structure, the next revolution will be in transformation. It&#39;s not going to just be about improved consumer outcomes (cost, speed, access) and transfering wealth from one generation&#39;s VCs to the next. If we are to truely build a better society, we must seek to collapse structures, not simply build different ones that drive towards the same financial end.</p><p>And so here we work, building an army of innovators by breaking the chains of technology that keep ideas from reality and stamped out in boardrooms and support forums. Welcome to the revolution, where authors give away their views on technology and its ability to transform society. We are here to change the notion&nbsp;of&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;by empowering everyone to be in&nbsp;<strong>control</strong>&nbsp;of their own destiny.</p>