---
title: 'Combating the rise of authoritarianism'
media_order: P1020871.jpg
date: '06-08-2016 00:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - activism
slug: end-of-summer
image: P1020871.jpg
---

<p>You may have noticed the screwed up political season in the US. Where typical corrupt politicians suddenly look like amazingly attractive options when framed against mad-men, and mad-men trick the masses, only ingesting media in sound bytes, into openly abandoning their typical view points simply to support their team. To the general depression of the global population, the solutions projected by both of these &quot;major&quot; parties suggest that people from afar will solve all your problems.</p><h3>Magic</h3><p>Ignoring the obviousness that no one far away can instantly improve your own situation seems to be something the masses are embracing as if it is fact. Regardless of your feelings about what governments need to do, no one person can magically make things safe, put food on your table, etc. At least not in a timely manner. So why are people in open revolt of logic in favor of a strong-(wo)man to solve problems for them? A corrector, a protector, a demigod. Looking beyond notions of creator and general godlessness, giving rise to humans taking the place of gods in many American homes, we must ask; what are people in worship of?</p><h3>Worship</h3><p>The American population as been worshiping stuff for a very long time. When presidents&#39; declare the most patriotic thing to do is to go to the mall, regardless of the populous adherence, there is a problem. We worship stuff and things, and have for some time. Hyper consumerism and &quot;throw away&quot; culture have only accelerated with the advent of &quot;cheap&quot; personal computing and information systems. We now not only expect to have stuff, we expect that stuff to work faster, cheaper, be more portable, and always accessible to us.</p><h3>Addiction</h3><p>Worship of things has given way to technological addiction. It&#39;s become too easy to look at your phone or computer screen rather then the humans you are &quot;talking to&quot; in the room. As you interface more with humans through&nbsp;technology mediated methods, you expect and rely on your things to provide the deep human connection you are missing. All the while, you are missing out on what&#39;s going on around you. You&#39;ve allowed engagement and control over your life to be trumped by the medium you are engaging with.</p><h3>Control</h3><p>Why has this happened? People expecting things instantly from the global avatar-ization of humanity, I argue, has given rise to the demand for strong-(wo)men. <em><strong>We want someone to just go fix it, we want someone else to deal with it, because we&#39;re already delegating much of our human existence to our stuff in the form of information technology.</strong></em> When I tweet an emoji of a pizza to Domino&#39;s pizza, I have eliminated all human connections from the process and just expect, <strong><em>no</em></strong>, <em>demand</em> a pizza show up and that money leave my bank account (or debt) to accomplish this fact. I, as a consumer have been lead to believe that it is fundamentally better to not engage with humans (in this case for food) and instead rely on my things to bring me things.</p><h3>Re-humanizing through deployment</h3><p>How can we bring harmony to this disharmonious social context? How did we reach the point that we expect, no, demand satisfaction and that someone else will just deal with it, without concern for others as humans (just as others). We must re-humanize society in all ways we can. Now, this is not to suggest that information technology is all the blame or that it can fix it (people were on trains decades ago staring at newspapers instead of talking to each other and the world got along just fine...ish). But, technology CAN be implemented in ways that encourage and foster human connections. I don&#39;t mean Face Time (this is still owned by Apple and you have no control over it or the data), I mean through redecentralization of overly centralized spaces.</p><h3>Wait for green</h3><p>People like to try and align with the path presented before them. It&#39;s the normalcy bias. We see people walking a certain way, we want to walk a certain way. We&#39;re not all sheep, but there is an inherit human flaw that wants to go along to get along (for many people at some level). So when you see a red light, most people stop. Why? Because of &quot;the law&quot;. Is the &quot;the law&quot; behind you, in front of you, over you at all times? No. But yet the social awareness of &quot;the rules&quot; drives us to want to do what&#39;s best for everyone (including us) and wait for green.</p><p>Well what if we remade roads? What if we fundamentally transformed them; created on-ramps for our flying cars to launch off of and then eventually demolished the original roads and planted trees.</p><h3>Radical digital transformation</h3><p>We can achieve this through structured (or rather largely unstructured) deployment of information technology. Through enough chain automation, we can effectively render modern technology unusable by comparison. If free, hyper-connected, hyper-flexible, liberty driven system deployment methodologies are used; could we not start to drive social change where people demand this level of flexibility in all things?</p><p>Part of the dismay with the political system we find ourselves in today is that the internet makes everything too easy. Too instant. Too awesome and too many possibilities; it&#39;s blinding at some level. It&#39;s the radical transparency of binary data that&#39;s lead us to become disenfranchised with traditional forms of governance. Organizations are &quot;being disrupted&quot; aka collapsed through radical automation / usability / &quot;free technologies&quot; (ok so Uber, Hulu, etc, aren&#39;t free but relative to traditional models in these spaces they might as well be)&nbsp;all the time.</p><h3>Libertarian ideal driven technology</h3><p>We need to create more hubs, more voices, more flexibility, more &quot;company-less&quot; spaces. And no, I don&#39;t mean an abandoning of capitalism; I mean the world needs to think more like email (protocol) and less like twitter (company, with apps that connect you to&nbsp;protocol). We need systems that operate more like living things if we want people to work, act, and behave more like humans and less like machines. By humanizing our technology deployments, we can deploy a better social fabric, and hopefully, together, in some small way, defeat the calls for&nbsp;authoritarian models and behaviors in favor of truly liberating ones.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><p>&nbsp;</p>